.TH LPSCOINS-QT "1" "March 2025" "lpscoins-qt 4.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lpscoins-qt \- peer-to-peer network based digital currency GUI client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpscoins-qt
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
LPSCoin-Qt is a graphical user interface for the LPSCoin cryptocurrency, a peer-to-peer network-based digital currency. It allows users to manage wallets, send and receive LPSCoins, and interact with the LPSCoin network. This manpage documents the command-line options available for starting the client.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display this help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-conf=\fR\fIfile\fR
Specify configuration file (default: \fBlpscoins.conf\fR or \fBthered.conf\fR in \fB~/.lpscoin/\fR).
.TP
\fB\-datadir=\fR\fIdir\fR
Specify data directory (default: \fB~/.lpscoin/\fR).
.TP
\fB\-dbcache=\fR\fIn\fR
Set database cache size in megabytes (default: 25).
.TP
\fB\-timeout=\fR\fIn\fR
Set connection timeout in milliseconds (default: 5000).
.TP
\fB\-proxy=\fR\fIip:port\fR
Connect through a SOCKS5 proxy (e.g., 127.0.0.1:9050 for Tor).
.TP
\fB\-tor=\fR\fIip:port\fR
Use a proxy to reach Tor hidden services (default: same as \fB\-proxy\fR).
.TP
\fB\-dns\fR
Allow DNS lookups for \fB\-addnode\fR, \fB\-seednode\fR, and \fB\-connect\fR (default: 1).
.TP
\fB\-port=\fR\fIport\fR
Listen for connections on \fIport\fR (default: 53472; testnet: 51474).
.TP
\fB\-maxconnections=\fR\fIn\fR
Maintain at most \fIn\fR connections to peers (default: 125).
.TP
\fB\-addnode=\fR\fIip[:port]\fR
Add a node to connect to and keep the connection open.
.TP
\fB\-connect=\fR\fIip[:port]\fR
Connect only to the specified node(s); disables listening.
.TP
\fB\-seednode=\fR\fIip[:port]\fR
Connect to a node to retrieve peer addresses, then disconnect.
.TP
\fB\-externalip=\fR\fIip\fR
Specify your own public IP address.
.TP
\fB\-onlynet=\fR\fInet\fR
Restrict connections to \fInet\fR (IPv4, IPv6, or Tor).
.TP
\fB\-discover\fR
Discover own IP address (default: 1 when listening and no \fB\-externalip\fR).
.TP
\fB\-listen\fR
Accept incoming connections (default: 1 unless \fB\-connect\fR is used).
.TP
\fB\-bind=\fR\fIaddr\fR
Bind to given address and always listen on it (e.g., 192.168.1.1:53472; use [host]:port for IPv6).
.TP
\fB\-dnsseed\fR
Find peers using DNS lookup (default: 1 unless \fB\-connect\fR is used).
.TP
\fB\-upnp\fR
Use UPnP to map the listening port (default: 1 when listening).
.TP
\fB\-paytxfee=\fR\fIamt\fR
Set transaction fee per kB for sent transactions (default: 0.0001).
.TP
\fB\-server\fR
Accept JSON-RPC commands (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-testnet\fR
Use the test network instead of the main LPSCoin network.
.TP
\fB\-debug\fR[=\fIcategory\fR]
Output extra debugging information (e.g., "rpc", "net"; default: none).
.TP
\fB\-logtimestamps\fR
Prepend debug output with timestamps (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-printtoconsole\fR
Send debug info to console instead of debug.log (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-rpcuser=\fR\fIuser\fR
Username for JSON-RPC connections.
.TP
\fB\-rpcpassword=\fR\fIpw\fR
Password for JSON-RPC connections.
.TP
\fB\-rpcport=\fR\fIport\fR
Listen for JSON-RPC connections on \fIport\fR (default: 53473; testnet: 51475).
.TP
\fB\-rpcallowip=\fR\fIip\fR
Allow JSON-RPC connections from specified IP (e.g., 192.168.1.0/24).
.TP
\fB\-min\fR
Start minimized (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-splash\fR
Show splash screen on startup (default: 1).
.TP
\fB\-lang=\fR\fIlang\fR
Set language (e.g., "en_US"; default: system locale).
.TP
\fB\-keypool=\fR\fIn\fR
Set key pool size to \fIn\fR (default: 100).
.TP
\fB\-rescan\fR
Rescan the blockchain for missing wallet transactions on startup.
.TP
\fB\-upgradewallet\fR
Upgrade wallet to the latest format on startup.
.TP
\fB\-txindex\fR
Maintain a full transaction index (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-reindex\fR
Rebuild blockchain index from current blk*.dat files on startup.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
Options can also be specified in a configuration file, typically \fB~/.lpscoin/thered.conf\fR or \fBlpscoins.conf\fR. Command-line options override file settings. Example:
.PP
.nf
rpcuser=youruser
rpcpassword=yourpassword
server=1
testnet=0
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lpscoinsd (1),
.BR thered.conf (5),
https://lpscoin.org/

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was updated for LPSCoin 4.1.0 by contributors to the LPSCoin project.
