.TH LPSCOINSD "1" "March 2025" "lpscoinsd 4.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lpscoinsd \- peer-to-peer network based digital currency daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpscoinsd
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIcommand\fR] [\fIparams\fR]
.br
.B lpscoinsd
[\fIoptions\fR] \fBhelp\fR [\fIcommand\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBLPSCoinSD\fR is the daemon for the LPSCoin cryptocurrency, a peer-to-peer digital currency network. It manages the blockchain, handles transactions, and provides an RPC interface for remote control. Unlike centralized systems, LPSCoin operates without a central authority, with nodes collectively maintaining the network.

Key features:
- Send LPSCoins over the internet without intermediaries.
- Irreversible transactions for security.
- Decentralized issuance and stability, avoiding fractional reserve banking.

This manpage documents the command-line options and RPC commands for \fBlpscoinsd\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display this help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-conf=\fR\fIfile\fR
Specify configuration file (default: \fBthered.conf\fR or \fBlpscoins.conf\fR in \fB~/.lpscoin/\fR).
.TP
\fB\-datadir=\fR\fIdir\fR
Specify data directory (default: \fB~/.lpscoin/\fR).
.TP
\fB\-daemon\fR
Run in the background as a daemon (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-testnet\fR
Use the test network (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-proxy=\fR\fIip:port\fR
Connect through a SOCKS5 proxy (e.g., 127.0.0.1:9050 for Tor).
.TP
\fB\-addnode=\fR\fIip[:port]\fR
Add a node to connect to and keep open (e.g., 69.164.218.197).
.TP
\fB\-connect=\fR\fIip[:port]\fR
Connect only to the specified node(s), disabling listening.
.TP
\fB\-listen\fR
Accept incoming connections (default: 1 unless \fB\-connect\fR is used).
.TP
\fB\-port=\fR\fIport\fR
Listen for connections on \fIport\fR (default: 53472; testnet: 51474).
.TP
\fB\-maxconnections=\fR\fIn\fR
Maintain at most \fIn\fR connections to peers (default: 125).
.TP
\fB\-upnp\fR
Use UPnP to map the listening port (default: 1 when listening).
.TP
\fB\-paytxfee=\fR\fIamt\fR
Set transaction fee per kB for sent transactions (default: 0.0001).
.TP
\fB\-server\fR
Accept JSON-RPC commands (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-rpcuser=\fR\fIuser\fR
Username for JSON-RPC authentication.
.TP
\fB\-rpcpassword=\fR\fIpw\fR
Password for JSON-RPC authentication.
.TP
\fB\-rpcport=\fR\fIport\fR
Listen for JSON-RPC connections on \fIport\fR (default: 53473; testnet: 51475).
.TP
\fB\-rpcallowip=\fR\fIip\fR
Allow JSON-RPC from specified IP (e.g., 192.168.1.0/24; default: 127.0.0.1 only).
.TP
\fB\-rpcconnect=\fR\fIip\fR
Send RPC commands to a remote host (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
\fB\-rpcssl\fR
Use SSL/TLS for RPC connections (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-rpcsslciphers=\fR\fIciphers\fR
Set SSL/TLS ciphers (default: TLSv1.2+ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:!aNULL:!eNULL).
.TP
\fB\-rpcsslcertificatechainfile=\fR\fIfile\fR
SSL certificate chain file (default: server.cert).
.TP
\fB\-rpcsslprivatekeyfile=\fR\fIfile\fR
SSL private key file (default: server.pem).
.TP
\fB\-txindex\fR
Maintain a full transaction index (default: 0).
.TP
\fB\-reindex\fR
Rebuild blockchain index on startup.
.TP
\fB\-debug\fR[=\fIcategory\fR]
Output extra debugging info (e.g., "rpc", "net"; default: none).

.SH COMMANDS
These RPC commands can be sent via \fBbitrpc.py\fR or when \fB-server\fR is enabled. Use \fBhelp\fR [\fIcommand\fR] for details.
.TP
\fBbackupwallet\fR \fIdestination\fR
Safely copies \fBwallet.dat\fR to \fIdestination\fR (directory or file path).
.TP
\fBgetaccount\fR \fIaddress\fR
Returns the account associated with \fIaddress\fR.
.TP
\fBsetaccount\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIaccount\fR]
Sets \fIaccount\fR for \fIaddress\fR; omit \fIaccount\fR to remove it.
.TP
\fBgetaccountaddress\fR \fIaccount\fR
Returns a new address for \fIaccount\fR.
.TP
\fBgetaddressesbyaccount\fR \fIaccount\fR
Lists addresses for \fIaccount\fR.
.TP
\fBgetbalance\fR [\fIaccount\fR] [\fIminconf=1\fR]
Returns balance for \fIaccount\fR or total server balance if omitted.
.TP
\fBgetblockcount\fR
Returns the number of blocks in the longest chain.
.TP
\fBgetblocknumber\fR
Returns the block height of the latest block (alias for \fBgetblockcount\fR).
.TP
\fBgetconnectioncount\fR
Returns the number of peer connections.
.TP
\fBgetdifficulty\fR
Returns the proof-of-work difficulty.
.TP
\fBgetinfo\fR
Returns server information.
.TP
\fBgetnewaddress\fR [\fIaccount\fR]
Generates a new address, optionally for \fIaccount\fR.
.TP
\fBgetreceivedbyaccount\fR [\fIaccount\fR] [\fIminconf=1\fR]
Returns total received amount for \fIaccount\fR with at least \fIminconf\fR confirmations.
.TP
\fBgetreceivedbyaddress\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIminconf=1\fR]
Returns total received amount for \fIaddress\fR with at least \fIminconf\fR confirmations.
.TP
\fBgettransaction\fR \fItxid\fR
Returns details for transaction \fItxid\fR.
.TP
\fBhelp\fR [\fIcommand\fR]
Lists commands or details for \fIcommand\fR.
.TP
\fBlistaccounts\fR [\fIminconf=1\fR]
Lists accounts and balances with at least \fIminconf\fR confirmations.
.TP
\fBlistreceivedbyaccount\fR [\fIminconf=1\fR] [\fIincludeempty=false\fR]
Lists accounts with received amounts (\fIminconf\fR confirmations; include empty if \fIincludeempty\fR).
.TP
\fBlistreceivedbyaddress\fR [\fIminconf=1\fR] [\fIincludeempty=false\fR]
Lists addresses with received amounts (\fIminconf\fR confirmations; include empty if \fIincludeempty\fR).
.TP
\fBlisttransactions\fR [\fIaccount\fR] [\fIcount=10\fR] [\fIfrom=0\fR]
Lists up to \fIcount\fR transactions for \fIaccount\fR, skipping \fIfrom\fR entries.
.TP
\fBmove\fR \fIfromaccount\fR \fItoaccount\fR \fIamount\fR [\fIminconf=1\fR] [\fIcomment\fR]
Moves \fIamount\fR from \fIfromaccount\fR to \fItoaccount\fR.
.TP
\fBsendfrom\fR \fIaccount\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIamount\fR [\fIminconf=1\fR] [\fIcomment\fR] [\fIcomment-to\fR]
Sends \fIamount\fR from \fIaccount\fR to \fIaddress\fR.
.TP
\fBsendtoaddress\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIamount\fR [\fIcomment\fR] [\fIcomment-to\fR]
Sends \fIamount\fR to \fIaddress\fR from the server's balance.
.TP
\fBstop\fR
Stops the daemon.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lpscoins-qt (1),
.BR thered.conf (5),
https://lpscoin.org/

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was updated for LPSCoin 4.1.0 by contributors to the LPSCoin project. Originally written by Micah Anderson <micah@debian.org> for Debian, it is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 3 or later. See \fB/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL\fR on Debian systems.
