.TH THERED.CONF "5" "March 2025" "lpscoins.conf 4.1.0" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
thered.conf \- LPSCoin configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
Configuration file for \fBlpscoinsd\fR(1) and \fBlpscoins-qt\fR(1).
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBthered.conf\fR (or \fBlpscoins.conf\fR) file contains configuration settings for the LPSCoin daemon (\fBlpscoinsd\fR) and GUI client (\fBlpscoins-qt\fR). All command-line options (except \fB-conf\fR) may be specified in this file, with command-line options taking precedence over file settings.

The file is a plain-text list of \fIsetting=value\fR pairs, one per line. Comments begin with '#'. It is not created automatically; use a text editor to create it in the LPSCoin data directory.

.SH LOCATION
By default, \fBlpscoinsd\fR and \fBlpscoins-qt\fR look for \fBthered.conf\fR or \fBlpscoins.conf\fR in:
- Linux: \fB$HOME/.lpscoin/\fR
- macOS: \fB$HOME/Library/Application Support/LPSCoin/\fR
- Windows: \fB%APPDATA%\\LPSCoin\\\fR

Use \fB-datadir=\fR\fIdir\fR to specify a custom data directory or \fB-conf=\fR\fIfile\fR to set a different configuration file path.

.SH NETWORK SETTINGS
.TP
\fBtestnet=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Run on the test network instead of the main LPSCoin network (default: 0).
.TP
\fBproxy=\fR\fIip:port\fR
Connect through a SOCKS5 proxy (e.g., 127.0.0.1:9050 for Tor; default: none).
.TP
\fBaddnode=\fR\fIip[:port]\fR
Add a peer to connect to and advertise to other nodes (e.g., 69.164.218.197).
.TP
\fBconnect=\fR\fIip[:port]\fR
Connect only to specified peers, disabling incoming connections (e.g., 10.0.0.1:53472).
.TP
\fBmaxconnections=\fR\fIn\fR
Set maximum number of inbound and outbound connections (default: 125).
.TP
\fBlisten=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Accept incoming connections (default: 1 unless \fBconnect=\fR is used).
.TP
\fBport=\fR\fIport\fR
Listen for connections on \fIport\fR (default: 53472; testnet: 51474).
.TP
\fBupnp=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Use UPnP to map the listening port (default: 1 when listening).

.SH JSON-RPC OPTIONS
.TP
\fBserver=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Enable JSON-RPC server for remote commands (default: 0).
.TP
\fBrpcuser=\fR\fIusername\fR
Username for JSON-RPC authentication (required if \fBserver=1\fR).
.TP
\fBrpcpassword=\fR\fIpassword\fR
Password for JSON-RPC authentication (required if \fBserver=1\fR).
.TP
\fBrpcport=\fR\fIport\fR
Listen for JSON-RPC connections on \fIport\fR (default: 53473; testnet: 51475).
.TP
\fBrpcallowip=\fR\fIip\fR
Allow JSON-RPC connections from specified IP or subnet (e.g., 192.168.1.0/24; default: 127.0.0.1 only).
.TP
\fBrpcconnect=\fR\fIip\fR
Send RPC commands to a remote host (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
\fBrpcssl=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Use SSL/TLS for RPC connections (default: 0; requires OpenSSL).
.TP
\fBrpcsslciphers=\fR\fIciphers\fR
Set acceptable SSL/TLS ciphers (default: TLSv1.2+ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:!aNULL:!eNULL).
.TP
\fBrpcsslcertificatechainfile=\fR\fIfile\fR
SSL certificate chain file (default: server.cert).
.TP
\fBrpcsslprivatekeyfile=\fR\fIfile\fR
SSL private key file (default: server.pem).

.SH WALLET OPTIONS
.TP
\fBkeypool=\fR\fIn\fR
Pre-generate \fIn\fR key pairs for wallet backups (default: 100).
.TP
\fBpaytxfee=\fR\fIamount\fR
Set transaction fee per kB (default: 0.0001).
.TP
\fBtxindex=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Maintain a full transaction index (default: 0).

.SH USER INTERFACE OPTIONS
.TP
\fBmin=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Start \fBlpscoins-qt\fR minimized (default: 0).
.TP
\fBminimizetotray=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Minimize \fBlpscoins-qt\fR to the system tray (default: 0).
.TP
\fBsplash=\fR\fI[0|1]\fR
Show splash screen on startup (default: 1).

.SH MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
.TP
\fBdebug=\fR\fIcategory\fR
Enable debug logging for specific categories (e.g., "rpc", "net"; default: none).
.TP
\fBdatadir=\fR\fIdir\fR
Specify custom data directory (default: see \fBLOCATION\fR).

.SH EXAMPLE
A sample configuration file might look like:
.nf
# Enable RPC server
server=1
rpcuser=youruser
rpcpassword=yourpassword
rpcport=53473

# Network settings
addnode=69.164.218.197
listen=1
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lpscoinsd (1),
.BR lpscoins-qt (1),
https://lpscoin.org/

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was updated for LPSCoin 4.1.0 by contributors to the LPSCoin project. Originally written by Micah Anderson <micah@debian.org> for Debian, it is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version 3 or later. See \fB/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL\fR on Debian systems.
